# Documentation guidelines

## Time spent on (any type of) documentation (activity) is NOT a waste of time

The process of writing things down is key, but supporting activities (as described in the sections below) are just as important.

## Contribute to the documentation of related projects

This project uses a lot of complex technologies (JavaScript, FreeSWITCH, Nix, Linux, etc.); some are documented well (even for beginners), some are not (FreeSWITCH, Nix).

It may turn out that, at certain point, most of the time is spent improving documentation of **other** projects, but this won't be a wasted time:

+ Sometimes documentation of a project is lacking because it is complex one, and it is hard to find a good grip, even for experts. Any effort lowering the barrier to understanding will be beneficial. Especially, because:

+ You are not only helping your future self by saving substantial amount of time, effort, and frustration (see **implementation details** example in the next section),

+ but also paving the way for future collaborators who need to get up to speed by learning tools used in this project.

+ All this activity may even attract people who are interested in helping developing Access News. (It is also common that mutually beneficial relationships start forming between communities where such efforts introduced them to each other.)

## Document "findings"

Anything that helps understanding a project, a tool or technology used, etc. (even if it is only tangentially related). If at any point you ask yourself: "Should I document this?", the answer is almost always "yes".

Some examples of "a finding":

+ **learning path** for a specific technology

   How did you start out? What worked and what didn't? What resources did you peruse? What was your timeline? Sometimes cul-de-sacs are the most important, so noting them for others with the lesson's learned helps a lot. (This same sentiment applies to almost all other items below.)

+ heureka moments

+ tips

+ best practices

+ Any piece of information that would help learning and using Access News-related technologies which may not fit well in their respective documentations or online community discussions. (For example, setting up TR2 with Nix and FreeSWITCH has a lot nuances, but their communities probably wouldn't take too kindly if we started to obfuscate their official documentation with Access News-related stuff.)

+ **implementation details**

  For example, I'm currently having trouble with understanding my implementation of TR2 that I wrote almost 2 years ago. The basics are clear (it is a finite state machine that is driven by the events generated by FreeSWITCH), but these events are barely documented. I spent some time updating the FreeSWITCH docs at the time, but TR2 is an Erlang application, and thus FreeSWITCH events are further translated into Erlang binary terms - and it is not documented at all. I also failed to do so as I was under serious time constraints, but I know pay the price as I have to figure it out all over again as I have to rediscover the same steps by trial and error. And this is just one example.

+ What else? The next section fits here perfectly:

## Continuously think about how to improve the documentation process

+ Where to fit all the above information (and how) to make them easy to discover? (By "discover", I mean to find a specific kind of information and perhaps anything else related to it.)

+ documentation methodologies

+ **source code documentation**

  This is a big one; despite the rant above, the TR2 source code has a lot of explanatory comments, but it is hardly readable and adding to it is a pain (especially if one wants to keep the formatting). Explore ideas to make this easier, and more streamlined.

+ What can aid documentation?

  Sometimes a figure, chart, animation, drawing, etc. complements the explanation, but takes a lot of time. Nonetheless, do not hesitate.

+ (new item here)

vim: set tabstop=2 shiftwidth=2 expandtab:
